scripts/README.md, before:

# TurboDRF Release Scripts

This directory contains automated release scripts for TurboDRF.

## Quick Start

The easiest way to create a release is using the Makefile:

```bash
# Patch release (0.1.0 -> 0.1.1)
make release-patch

# Minor release (0.1.0 -> 0.2.0)
make release-minor

# Major release (0.1.0 -> 1.0.0)
make release-major

# Specific version
make release VERSION=0.2.0

# Quick release with auto-generated notes (requires GitHub CLI)
make quick-release-patch
make quick-release-minor
```

## Manual Release Process

### Using Python Script

```bash
# Show help
python scripts/release.py --help

# Patch release
python scripts/release.py patch

# Minor release
python scripts/release.py minor

# Major release
python scripts/release.py major

# Specific version
python scripts/release.py 0.2.0

# Dry run (no changes)
python scripts/release.py patch --dry-run

# Don't push (local changes only)
python scripts/release.py patch --no-push
```

### Using Bash Script

```bash
# Make executable (only needed once)
chmod +x scripts/release.sh

# Run release
./scripts/release.sh patch
./scripts/release.sh minor
./scripts/release.sh major
./scripts/release.sh 0.2.0
```

## What the Scripts Do

1. **Calculate new version** based on semantic versioning
2. **Update version** in:
   - `turbodrf/__init__.py`
   - `setup.py`
   - `pyproject.toml`
3. **Commit changes** with message "chore: Bump version to X.Y.Z"
4. **Create git tag** with format "vX.Y.Z"
5. **Push to GitHub** (both commits and tags)
6. **Show instructions** for creating GitHub release

## GitHub Release

After running the release script, complete the deployment:

### Option 1: GitHub Web UI
1. Go to https://github.com/alexandercollins/turbodrf/releases/new
2. Select the tag created by the script
3. Add release notes
4. Click "Publish release"

### Option 2: GitHub CLI
```bash
# With auto-generated notes
gh release create vX.Y.Z --generate-notes

# With custom notes
gh release create vX.Y.Z --notes "Release notes here"

# With notes from file
gh release create vX.Y.Z --notes-file RELEASE_NOTES.md
```

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.8+
- Git configured with push access
- PyPI API token in GitHub Secrets (for automatic deployment)
- GitHub CLI (optional, for quick releases)

## Troubleshooting

**Error: Could not find version**
- Ensure `turbodrf/__init__.py` contains `__version__ = "X.Y.Z"`

**Error: Git push failed**
- Check you have push access to the repository
- Ensure you're on the main branch
- Pull latest changes: `git pull origin main`

**PyPI deployment failed**
- Check `PYPI_API_TOKEN` is set in GitHub Secrets
- Verify the token has upload permissions
- Check package builds locally: `python -m build`

Commit message:

docs: Update all documentation for OIDC trusted publishing
- Replace PyPI API token instructions with OIDC setup
- Add trusted publisher configuration steps
- Update GitHub Actions examples to show OIDC usage
- Remove all references to API tokens and secrets
- Add benefits and security advantages of OIDC
- Update troubleshooting for OIDC-specific issues

scripts/README.md, after:

# TurboDRF Release Scripts

This directory contains automated release scripts for TurboDRF.

## Quick Start

The easiest way to create a release is using the Makefile:

```bash
# Patch release (0.1.0 -> 0.1.1)
make release-patch

# Minor release (0.1.0 -> 0.2.0)
make release-minor

# Major release (0.1.0 -> 1.0.0)
make release-major

# Specific version
make release VERSION=0.2.0

# Quick release with auto-generated notes (requires GitHub CLI)
make quick-release-patch
make quick-release-minor
```

## Manual Release Process

### Using Python Script

```bash
# Show help
python scripts/release.py --help

# Patch release
python scripts/release.py patch

# Minor release
python scripts/release.py minor

# Major release
python scripts/release.py major

# Specific version
python scripts/release.py 0.2.0

# Dry run (no changes)
python scripts/release.py patch --dry-run

# Don't push (local changes only)
python scripts/release.py patch --no-push
```

### Using Bash Script

```bash
# Make executable (only needed once)
chmod +x scripts/release.sh

# Run release
./scripts/release.sh patch
./scripts/release.sh minor
./scripts/release.sh major
./scripts/release.sh 0.2.0
```

## What the Scripts Do

1. **Calculate new version** based on semantic versioning
2. **Update version** in:
   - `turbodrf/__init__.py`
   - `setup.py`
   - `pyproject.toml`
3. **Commit changes** with message "chore: Bump version to X.Y.Z"
4. **Create git tag** with format "vX.Y.Z"
5. **Push to GitHub** (both commits and tags)
6. **Show instructions** for creating GitHub release

## GitHub Release

After running the release script, complete the deployment:

### Option 1: GitHub Web UI
1. Go to https://github.com/alexandercollins/turbodrf/releases/new
2. Select the tag created by the script
3. Add release notes
4. Click "Publish release"

### Option 2: GitHub CLI
```bash
# With auto-generated notes
gh release create vX.Y.Z --generate-notes

# With custom notes
gh release create vX.Y.Z --notes "Release notes here"

# With notes from file
gh release create vX.Y.Z --notes-file RELEASE_NOTES.md
```

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.8+
- Git configured with push access
- PyPI trusted publisher configured (for automatic OIDC deployment)
- GitHub CLI (optional, for quick releases)

## Troubleshooting

**Error: Could not find version**
- Ensure `turbodrf/__init__.py` contains `__version__ = "X.Y.Z"`

**Error: Git push failed**
- Check you have push access to the repository
- Ensure you're on the main branch
- Pull latest changes: `git pull origin main`

**PyPI deployment failed**
- Check PyPI trusted publisher is configured correctly
- Verify the workflow name matches the trusted publisher settings
- Ensure the workflow has `id-token: write` permission
- Check package builds locally: `python -m build`
